{\rtf1\ansi

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
}
\deff0
\fs20
\sb200

#{\footnote INTRODUCTION}
${\footnote Help for Einstein Explorer - SR}
+{\footnote 1.0.0.0}
K{\footnote general help}
{\b\fs30 Einstein Explorer - SR}
\par
Einstein Explorer - SR, simulates the visual effects that occur when travelling at 
relativistic speeds. At these speeds moving objects appear distorted due to light 
having a finite invariant speed. There are two contributing factors to this visual 
effect:
\par
{\b 1.{\tab The Lorentz Transformation}}
\par
This is the transformation between different inertial frames. It is a linear 
transformation in 4-dimensional space-time. In 3-dimensional space it causes a 
parameterised (speed dependent) scaling and translation. The result is that 
moving objects appear contracted along their direction of travel.
\par
{\b 2.{\tab The Eye}}
\par
The second effect is a consequence of the eye occupying a point in space. 
What we see at any instance in time is light rays that have arrived at our eye 
at the same time. The important thing to realise is that this does not imply 
that the rays left at the same time. Light has to leave earlier from points that 
are further away from the line of sight. For a moving object, different times 
correspond to different positions. The final image we see is thus a composite 
of images of the object in different positions.
\par
Adding perspective completes the effect.
\page

#{\footnote CONTROL}
${\footnote Control Menu}
+{\footnote 2.1.0.0}
K{\footnote control}
{\b\fs30 Control Menu}
\par
The control menu provides options for transforming the current scene.
\par
{\strike Translation}{\v TRANSLATION}
\line
{\strike Rotation}{\v ROTATION}
\line
{\strike Time}{\v TIME}
\line
{\strike Speed}{\v SPEED}
\page

#{\footnote TRANSLATION}
${\footnote Translation Control}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.0}
K{\footnote translation}
{\b\fs30 Translation Control}
\par
Using the translation control you can adjust the position of the viewpoint. 
All movement is done relative to a grand co-ordinate system.
\page

#{\footnote TRA_XINC}
${\footnote X Increment Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.1}
{\b\fs30 X Increment Button}
\par
Click to move the viewpoint along the x-axis in the positive direction.
\page

#{\footnote TRA_XDEC}
${\footnote X Decrement Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.2}
{\b\fs30 X Decrement Button}
\par
Click to move the viewpoint along the x-axis in the negative direction.
\page

#{\footnote TRA_YINC}
${\footnote Y Increment Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.3}
{\b\fs30 Y Increment Button}
\par
Click to move the viewpoint along the y-axis in the positive direction.
\page

#{\footnote TRA_YDEC}
${\footnote Y Decrement Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.4}
{\b\fs30 Y Decrement Button}
\par
Click to move the viewpoint along the y-axis in the negative direction.
\page

#{\footnote TRA_ZINC}
${\footnote Z Increment Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.5}
{\b\fs30 Z Increment Button}
\par
Click to move the viewpoint along the z-axis in the positive direction.
\page

#{\footnote TRA_ZDEC}
${\footnote Z Decrement Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.6}
{\b\fs30 Z Decrement Button}
\par
Click to move the viewpoint along the z-axis in the negative direction.
\page

#{\footnote TRA_SCALE}
${\footnote Scale Check Box}
+{\footnote 2.1.1.7}
{\b\fs30 Scale Check Box}
\par
Tick to scale all translation movements by a factor of 10. 
Useful for rapid navigation of the scene.
\page

#{\footnote ROTATION}
${\footnote Rotation Control}
+{\footnote 2.1.2.0}
K{\footnote rotation}
{\b\fs30 Rotation Control}
\par
Using the rotation control you can adjust the angle of the viewpoint. 
The x,y,z slider bars change the component values of the axis vector about 
which the rotation is applied. 
All movement is done relative to the local co-ordinate system.
\page

#{\footnote ROT_ANGLE}
${\footnote Angle Circular Slider Bar}
+{\footnote 2.1.2.1}
{\b\fs30 Angle Circular Slider Bar}
\par
Select the angle of rotation.
\page

#{\footnote ROT_X}
${\footnote X Slider Bar}
+{\footnote 2.1.2.2}
{\b\fs30 X Slider Bar}
\par
Drag the bar to set the x-component of the rotation axis vector.
\page

#{\footnote ROT_Y}
${\footnote Y Slider Bar}
+{\footnote 2.1.2.3}
{\b\fs30 Y Slider Bar}
\par
Drag the bar to set the y-component of the rotation axis vector.
\page

#{\footnote ROT_Z}
${\footnote Z Slider Bar}
+{\footnote 2.1.2.4}
{\b\fs30 Z Slider Bar}
\par
Drag the bar to set the z-component of the rotation axis vector.
\page

#{\footnote TIME}
${\footnote Time Control}
+{\footnote 2.1.3.0}
K{\footnote time}
{\b\fs30 Time Control}
\par
The time control allows you to step the current time forwards or backwards.
\page

#{\footnote TIM_INC}
${\footnote Time Increment Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.3.1}
{\b\fs30 Time Increment Button}
\par
Click to increase the current time.
\page

#{\footnote TIM_DEC}
${\footnote Time Decrement Button}
+{\footnote 2.1.3.2}
{\b\fs30 Time Decrement Button}
\par
Click to decrease the current time.
\page

#{\footnote TIM_SCALE}
${\footnote Scale Check Box}
+{\footnote 2.1.3.3}
{\b\fs30 Scale Check Box}
\par
Tick to scale all temporal motion by a factor of 10. 
Useful for rapid navigation of the scene.
\page

#{\footnote SPEED}
${\footnote Speed Control}
+{\footnote 2.1.4.0}
K{\footnote speed}
{\b\fs30 Speed Control}
\par
The speed control allows you to select the speed of the travelling 
objects in the scene.
\page

#{\footnote SPE_BAR}
${\footnote Speed Slider Bar}
+{\footnote 2.1.4.1}
{\b\fs30 Speed Slider Bar}
\par
Drag the bar to set the speed. 
The speed increases towards the right (zero at the left end).
\page

#{\footnote OPTIONS}
${\footnote Options Menu}
+{\footnote 2.2.0.0}
K{\footnote options}
{\b\fs30 Options Menu}
\par
There are several options available for changing the scene.
\par
{\strike Frame}{\v FRAME}
\line
{\strike Object}{\v OBJECT}
\line
{\strike Doppler}{\v DOPPLER}
\line
{\strike Freeze}{\v FREEZE}
\line
{\strike Loop}{\v LOOP}
\page

#{\footnote FRAME}
${\footnote Frame Sub-Menu}
+{\footnote 2.2.1.0}
K{\footnote frame}
{\b\fs30 Frame Sub-Menu}
\par
The frame sub-menu allows you to swap the viewpoint between the rest frame 
of the world (default) and the rest frame of the moving object.
\page


#{\footnote OBJECT}
${\footnote Object Sub-Menu}
+{\footnote 2.2.2.0}
K{\footnote object}
{\b\fs30 Object Sub-Menu}
\par
The object sub-menu allows you to select the shape of the moving object.
\page

#{\footnote DOPPLER}
${\footnote Doppler}
+{\footnote 2.2.3.0}
K{\footnote doppler}
{\b\fs30 Doppler}
\par
Toggles the colour Doppler shift.
When enabled, the colour is set to black if the frequency is shifted out 
of the visible range.
\page

#{\footnote FREEZE}
${\footnote Freeze}
+{\footnote 2.2.4.0}
K{\footnote freeze}
{\b\fs30 Freeze}
\par
Toggles the time freeze. Unfreezing time causes the scene to become animated.
\page

#{\footnote LOOP}
${\footnote Loop}
+{\footnote 2.2.5.0}
K{\footnote loop}
{\b\fs30 Loop}
\par
Loops time.
\page

#{\footnote GRAPHICS}
${\footnote Graphics Menu}
+{\footnote 2.3.0.0}
K{\footnote graphics}
{\b\fs30 Graphics Menu}
\par
There are several options available for improving the graphics.
\par
{\strike Fog}{\v FOG}
\line
{\strike Texture}{\v TEXTURE}
\line
{\strike Wireframe}{\v WIREFRAME}
\page

#{\footnote FOG}
${\footnote Fog}
+{\footnote 2.3.1.0}
K{\footnote fog}
{\b\fs30 Fog}
\par
Fog provides a depth-cueing effect, generating a more realistic image.
\page

#{\footnote TEXTURE}
${\footnote Texture}
+{\footnote 2.3.2.0}
K{\footnote texture}
{\b\fs30 Texture}
\par
Toggles texture mapping, creating a more realistic image.
\page

#{\footnote WIREFRAME}
${\footnote Wireframe}
+{\footnote 2.3.3.0}
K{\footnote wireframe}
{\b\fs30 Wireframe}
\par
Toggles the wireframe view.
\page

}
